Today I want to talk about the hysteria
revolving around lengthened partials and
really where we sit with it now.
Hi, my name is John Jish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering which gives me
a unique perspective on lots of
different things that a lot of fitness
influencers comment on. I just have a
slightly different take today. I want to
talk about the hysteria revolving around
lengthened partials and really where we
sit with it. Now, for those of you that
weren't following, I'll just bring you
up to speed. For about the last two
years, there have been a group of social
media guys with uh with advanced degrees
with PhDs who have been really excited
about exercising in the lengthened
position. So, like for example, they'll
do cable bicep curls where they pull
their arms way back and they're pulling
on cables. So, trying to get as much
stretch into the bicep as possible,
doing this, echoing it throughout the
body. And there were some initial tests,
studies that made this type of training,
really just focusing on the stretch
portion, look very meaningful. And my
view of this was like, okay, so every
set of everything ever with any type of
exercise, if fatigue was reached, it's
reached in that stretch range of motion.
Like if you go to fatigue in a bench
press, it's at the bottom. You don't go
to fatigue at the top where you're much
stronger. So saying that the stretch
portion matters is kind of like, thanks,
Captain Obvious. Yeah, we got it. But
the hysteria went a little further and
tried to assign some sort of special
property that only training in this
range of motion would skew sort of skew
your results so that you had even more
muscular gains. I funded a study which
Dr. Dr. Milo Wolf was one of the authors
on and he's awesome because the study uh
it it really compared a cable lateral.
So imagine if I'm holding a cable and
I'm pulling outward and doing a lateral
with with my of course I wouldn't be
sitting down to try and to try and
isolate my my deltoid here. So with a
cable there's more resistance in the
stretched or lengthened position. So
this is the lengthened position. This is
the shortened position for the deltoid.
Now a cable will give you more
resistance in the lengthen position
because as you pull
you have a fulcrum and it ends up
seeming like there's less resistance at
the top because you're basically using a
lever from that fulcrum point. The
comparison was dumbbells. Now with a
dumbbell
because fulcrum again
the load is much higher because of this
lever for the basically the opposite
reason. So it's very heavy here but the
same weight is actually not that heavy
because I'm not really moving it very
much. It's got a long lever attached to
it. So,
it's almost like every lateral raise
that was ever done with a dumbbell was
variable resistance,
which I think is part of the reason why
you look at a lot of bodybuilders and
they have overdeveloped deltoids because
that lateral raise is with a dumbbell is
super effective because they're getting
a style of resistance that is placed on
them so that they can take the muscle to
a deeper er level of fatigue. They can
they can go to fatigue here and then
here and then here and then here very
similar to what we do with X3 and they
can get incredible benefit. So the study
that I funded with Dr. Wol's group
looked at laterals versus cables and it
really determined that it didn't matter
what you did, the growth was the same.
As long as the volume was equated from
both groups, the growth was the same. So
really the punchline was in and I really
commend Dr. Wolf for giving us the
scientific correct answer as opposed to
the answer that he wanted because I'm
sure when he looked at that he thought,
"Oh man, I thought like everything he
had been saying was really assigning
some special property and to to this
lengthened movements and really turns
out it's not it's not there." So that
was particularly awesome of him. Uh, and
now a guy named Jeremy Etherier, who is
a uh, very popular YouTube influencer.
Uh, I'm I'm gonna play a little bit of
his video and I'm going to react to
something he did, which was basically
replicate the study we did with a
different exercise.
>> Spent over $40,000 on this study to
prove everyone wrong. Because recently,
the entire fitness community has become
obsessed with the same thing. I'm all on
the stretch wave these days. Ultra focus
on the stretch
>> and now you get a get a much bigger
stretch here.
>> The theory is if you modify an exercise
to stretch your muscle more or challenge
it in the stretch, it now becomes S tier
for growth. And to be fair, I said the
exact same thing.
And for good reason, as we had dozens of
studies supporting this idea, but
despite all this research, the evidence
backing our claims, it has some massive
holes in it. And there's a real chance
this obsession with the stretch is
completely overblown. So to find out, I
assembled an elite research team,
brought in custom machines, and spent an
entire year running one of the most
comprehensive studies ever done. Okay,
so we're 52 seconds in and that's that's
about it. It goes on and on and does
show a lot of detail, but there's no
like one part of that video that's
really impactful. So I'll just give you
the summary. they replicated something
similar to what we did and they came to
the same conclusion. So
what's the takeaway? The takeaway is
training full range is really important.
So you don't want to ignore any part of
the range of motion. You don't want to
ignore the strong range. You don't want
to ignore the weak range, which is also
called the lengthened range. They
probably didn't want to call it the weak
range because that sounds like, you
know, something that's not marketable.
So, they started calling it lengthened
training, but it really doesn't matter.
Train full range. You don't want to
ignore that lengthened part, but you
don't need to emphasize it either. I
hope that helps. If you think I'm wrong
and you want to criticize me in the
comments, that's okay. I got plenty of
research and we can have that
discussion. Thanks. See you in the next
one. If this video helped you, I want
you to subscribe and follow. I'm going
to put out videos on a regular basis. I
think they're going to help a whole lot
of people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights. We've
got the answer for you.